---
template: item
itemtype: Manuscript
parent_item: 
title: Letter from Aubrey Hall to Margaret Hall
author: Harold Aubrey Hall
images:
  - commons: Letter_from_Aubrey_Hall_to_Margaret_Hall,_1935-12-25,_p1.png
    caption: Page 1
  - commons: Letter_from_Aubrey_Hall_to_Margaret_Hall,_1935-12-25,_p2.png
    caption: Page 2
  - commons: Letter_from_Aubrey_Hall_to_Margaret_Hall,_1935-12-25,_envelope_front.png
    caption: Envelope (recto)
  - commons: Letter_from_Aubrey_Hall_to_Margaret_Hall,_1935-12-25,_envelope_back.png
    caption: Envelope (verso)
  - commons: Letter_from_Aubrey_Hall_to_Margaret_Hall,_1935-12-25,_postmark.png
    caption: Postmark detail
license: cc-by
pd_year: 2034
date: 1935-12-25
date_precision: day
storage_location: folder1
storage_location_key: 157
tags:
  - letters
  - carnarvon
  - Yaringa South
  - 130 Broome Street
people:
  - harold-aubrey-hall
  - helen-margaret-hall
  - sarah-constance-leake
description: 
---

## Transcription

Miss Margaret Hall

c/o T.S. Lodge Esq

130 Broome Street

Cottesloe.

*Postmark:* CARNARVON W.A. 27 DE 35

***

Yaringa South

Christmas Day /35

My dear Margaret,

Festivities in full swing here. I came in yesterday evening, had been out for ten days.

Seventeen here for dinner, Yaringas, Woodleighs, and Hamelin Pools, also [?Johns], Val and their mother.

Hope you are having a decent time, probably hotter in Perth than in Carnarvon.

Very hot here in the back paddocks, cannot shift sheep in the afternoon [?] when
they keep getting under the shade.

Don't rush about too much, change and rest is what you need, not rush and excitement. Hope you will see Aunt Joy, Lou, Edith and Mrs Gillam.

Have you seen or heard of Norman Watson or seen anything of Hedly?

I do hope and pray Gag is home and making good

***

recover from this last carbuncle & that the prompt medical and surgical treatment in this case will end the scurge.
Mother sent me a parcel of [?head Bays] and I wired her for, per Mrs Lammond &
I was hoping for news of Gag, but she did not write, so I only know up to when Gag had
just gone to the hospital with Mr Scott.

I shall be glad if there is no [?worry] for a while after I finish here, have now had thirteen
weeks continuous shearing [?]. Had two smacks in my left eye from scrub, my [?horses]
just about turn off me in the scrub & my horse came down with [?] [?]. It is [?] that [?Carnamagh], [?], [?],
in all 15 [?flatinis] are putting up £500 each, trying. [?] [?] opening [?] transport it will be a hard thing for your [?father].

With love and fond wishes and hoping for your safe return. Your affectionate

Dad—
