---
template: item
itemtype: Manuscript
parent_item: 
title: Interview with Joan Martin
author: Joan Martin
images:
  - ia: JoanMartin1978
    ia_file:
    caption:
license: copyright
date: 1978-10-13
date_precision: day
storage_location: unknown
storage_location_key: 
ia: JoanMartin1978
people:
  - joan-leake-hall
description: Oral history interview with Joan Martin, conducted by Ruth Mann. With additional notes by Judith Hall, January 1998.
---

https://archive.org/details/JoanMartin1978

## Transcription

INTERVIEW{br}
with MRS JOAN MARTIN 

conducted by Ruth Mann, Hunt Road, Beverley,{br}
13th October, 1978 

{wdl|Joan S. Martin}

- born at Yangedine, January, 1892, Beverley, W.A. 
- younger daughter of Tom and Connie Lodge 
- married Norman Martin 
- lived at 128 Broome Street, Cottesloe, w.A.

This copy was typed by Judith Hall, Melbourne, Victoria 

January, 1998. See end notes. 

Tom Lodge, my father arrived in W.A. in the sailing ship, Lady Elizabeth, in 1878, 
after three months voyage. They were becalmed and had a bad trip. He went to 
‘Yangedine’ in 1891. 

He married Constance Leake, daughter of George Leake Q.C. After they were 
married they were at Grass Valley to start with, managing for George Keen, when 
Grass Valley was one estate, and from there they went to England for a trip in 1890, 
took Helen who had her third birthday in England and when they came back they went 
to Yangedine in 1891. I was born in January 1892 and my brother Jack was born 
there. Father managed for Darlot Bros. in about 1896 I think. While at Yangedine my 
Father’s two cousins joined him; Arthur Lodge, who married Sarah Fleay and Frank 
Lodge who married (Prete) Julia Caroline Lukin. They were also cousins. 

In 1897 Father bought Seaton Ross from John Fleay. The house had a thatch roof and 
was in bad repair. One day Mother was resting on her bed and all of a sudden an egg 
landed beside her -- a hen had laid an egg and it had fallen through the thatch. We had 
the roof repaired and an unbleached calico ceiling put in to save the dust and foreign 
bodies landing on us. 

In 1900 the house was destroyed by fire. It started in the kitchen at one end of the 
house and in about four minutes the roof had fallen in. No one was hurt. Mother was 
home alone with the old Irish cook. She went to get clothes from her bedroom but 
flames knocked her backwards. As she ran out of the house she pulled a crayon 
drawing of Father as a boy of nine years which was over her bedroom door. She only 
had the clothes she had on. Father and Jack were in Beverley. Father was waline 
down the main street with Sam Adamson, and H.M. Fisher when they saw a man 
galloping down the road. Father said, “Look at that damn fool. He’ll pull up suddenly 
in a minute’, and he did, and he said, “Mr Lodge your house has been burnt down.” 
Henry Lukin, Sam Adamson and H.M. Fisher paid to have the house re-roofed. That’s 
neighbours for you! 

Helen was staying in Albany and I was at Guildford, so we each had our clothes. Jack 
and I went to ‘Avondale’ and Helen was at school in Northam. Avondale was Willy de 


Lisle’s, where the Research Station is. Well, it belonged to Willy de Lisle then and his 


sister who lived with him. She afterwards married Dr House. Father and Mother lived 
in a big tent until the house was livable again. 

Two years later half our run was burnt out,. lit by Jimmy Dempster’s native Neddy. 
He intended to burn out Henry Lukin who had a row with Jimmy Dempster over some 
stray pigs that were rooting up the countryside. He had hundreds of stray pigs. The 
wind changed and burnt Dempster out and Seaton Ross. I suppose Jack and I were 
about 7 and 9 at the time. Father was in bed in a dark room with Sandy Blight and we 
were sent to get a mob of sheep from one side of the road, where little St Paul’s is 
across the main road, through two lots of gates to the river bed to save them and it 
was a case of whether we kids could get there first or whether the fire would. We were 
bare footed I remember, but we managed to race the fire. It burnt right down and they 
only save little St Paul’s Church, more by good luck than good management. 

One of Mother’s sisters married Keith Adam who was R.M. at Katanning. His old 
mother, Lady Adam (who lived in Scotland) was very ill. So they sold up everything 
and took their four children to see her: Bob, Charley [sic] Poppy and Norah. (Bob 
Adam lived at St Aubyn’s [sic] afterwards). On returning home again they left the two 
boys at boarding school in England. Uncle Keith’s brother was paying for them, On 
the voyage back after leaving Colombo, Uncle Keith died after developing pneumonia, 
and was buried at sea. Aunt Jane with two small girls arrived back in Fremantle with 
no money and nowhere to go. He had even mortgaged his life assurance to get this 
trip home. So we, having the least room and the least money, took them in and they 
came to live with us. Aunt Janey taught us lessons for a while. We only had two 
bedrooms: Mother and Father had one bedroom and Jack had a bed at the foot of their 
bed. Aunt Janey and her two girls and I were in the other bedroom. They were tiny 
little rooms. 

After a while Aunt Janey went across to Avondal’ to the de Lisle’s and stayed there 
and then she opened up a shop at Mt Kikeby, with tea and sugar and flour and stuff. 
She worked it up until it got so big that she had to sell out. She went back to England 
and got a job in the Agents General’s Office and didn’t come back. Charley stayed in 
Scotland, Bob came back and he was share-farming at St Aubyn’s with Fisher when 
World War 1 started. He joined up and was later killed. In 1902 ‘Seaton Ross’ was 


sold to Willy de Lisle and we moved to Busselton. 


When we were at Seaton Ross, Jack and I used to walk to the 107 (which was called 
‘Edward’s Crossing’ afterwards) from Seaton Ross and come into Beverley to school. 
We used to carry our boots and socks and put them on, either by the railway line, or if 
Palmer the guard was on, we were allowed to get into his van and put them on by his 
fire -- he had a little coal fire. We didn’t like Ford, he never asked us into the van. He 
was the other guard. Those were the two guards on the train going through to Albany. 
We went to school on the train but someone had to come and pick us up in the 
afternoon because there was no train back. 

My brother had a hare lip and cleft palate and he spoke very badly. Afterwards he had 
operations, but at that time he hadn’t. The children used to mock him. Mr Slater, the 
head master, called Jack into his office and said, “If they mock you Jack, you biff 
them.” And Jack did biff them I can tell you. It was no good him trying to correct 
them afterwards. His argument was that when they did it they had to be stopped, so 
Jack hoed into them. 

There was the Freemason’s Hotel -- that was the hotel; there was Edward’s store, a 
general store and Horace Smith’s store which sold everything from needles to bags of 
flour -- everything. After the fire Mother went to Horace Smith’s and he said, “Mrs 
Lodge, you can have anything you want off the shelf.” Mother said the tears were 
running down my face and I didn’t even have a handkerchief to mop them up. You 
know, everyone was so kind. It was amazing what they did for us; the kindness she 
received. Of course you can’t beat country people. 

Agnes Groser was the teacher of the Form I was in at school. Canon Groser’s 
daughter and Jimmy Mann and Clara Smith were in the top of the school, and I was 
down at the bottom. Alda Smith, she was my contemporary. She was my age. I 
didn’t know the younger ones so much. There were three teachers at the school -- the 
headmaster Mr Slater, Agnes Groser and Miss Ash. She took the Infants, the very 
junior part. I was in Second Standard as they called it then. Mr Slater had the higher 
Standards. The school was where the Library is now. That’s where we went to 
school. 

I can remember Frank Broun. he was the Member of Parliament then. He built a big 
house out on the Avondale Road. The Lennards were also out there, Eddie Lennard. 


I knew Dovie very well. Jack Norris was in the bank at Busselton and we knew him 


very well. I kept in touch with Beverley because I used to come back to St Aubyn’s 
when the boys were small; I used to stay up there. Later I used to stay with Chas. and 
Nell Weaver when they were out on the farm; their children were about the same age 
as mine. The kids, they loved it. The Weavers came up to live in Beverley just before 
we went to Busselton, because Leath and Olive used to walk in from Mt Amy to 
school. Chas didn’t come, he stayed in Busselton with Mr Gale. We knew Chas better 
because we moved to Busselton and Chas was there. It was always a joke -- Chas 
used to be hunting cattle and Mr Gale had a tremendous lot of land and cattle. We 
always reckoned that Chas ended up on our washing bench on Monday morning 
talking to us. He was a good bit older than I was, more my sister’s age, but that’s how 
we became great friends with Chas and Nell. 

I’ve always come backwards and forwards to Beverley; it was my home. When we 
were at ‘Yangedine’ I remember we had a general rouse-about, he was an elderly man 
with a white beard -- his name was Smith. He was always know as ‘Squeaky Bob’, he 
had a very squeaky voice. He worked around the house; he did the wood cutting for 
the kitchen and all the odd jobs. 

Arthur Lodge, he trained race horses for Darlot Bros at Yangedine. ‘Wandering 
Willie’ was one of the horses. I ran remember ‘Wandering Willie’ quite well. 

There was an old mill across where the dam is with a wonderful fresh water spring 
where we used to bathe - behind the mill. They say it is still there -- the mill has gone 
but the spring is still there. When we went to Seaton Ross there was no water because 
there were no rain water tanks and there was a little soak and the men used to go 
down every morning and bring up what water they could get. That had to last until the 
next morning when the soak made up again. But we had the river where we could go 
and bathe, and for a long time the clothes had to be taken down to the river and 
washed in the brackish water in the river because there was no other water there. You 
imagine a thatch, no rain water. The house, I think it is still there near the river -- 
behind where the McGlew’s built, just a bit further in. I thought I could see it when I 
drove past with Peg Weaver; but McGlew’s built where we had a little bit of an 
orchard and that’s where they built. The old house was down behind that at the foot 
of the hill. 


We used to go to the Lukin’s a lot. We used to walk to Haisthorp on Sundays and 
that sort of thing. The church was the meeting place for everybody. Nobody seemed 
to have time for sport in those days. They were working jolly hard to earn a crust. 
Canon Groser used to come out to the little old church and I can remember when 
Henry Lukin of Haisthorpe died. I don’t know why, but Father took Jack and myself 
to the little church and I can remember to this day, Mary Adamson, who was Henry 
Lukin’s daughter singing hymns at the top of her voice at the funeral. I couldn’t 
understand how she could sing properly at her father’s funeral. I can remember that 
from when I was a kid. There she was beefing it out; of course she had a voice like a 
fog horn; and Sam Adamson was the quietest retiring Scotch man. Funny isn’t it? 
They were absolutely the opposite. 

Mr HM. Fisher married Beryl Hicking who we sort of adopted, she called Mother 
Mum: she had no parents. Her father had been a bank manager in Perth. She had two 
brothers; one brother George, was secretary of the Weld Club. I forget what Wyatt 
did. I was their bridesmaid; I was only a small child. May said to me the other day, 


eat s “You were Mother’s bridesmaid. I don’t know how old you are, but I’m nearly 


ae we 


ya 


eighty 


) eight!” May was over here recently to see Ethel. The kids used to stay up there --May 


was dark, Ethel a bit fairer, and of course Sarah had white hair; she was very fair as a 
young girl and my kids got so mixed up with these aunts, because they called them all 
‘Aunt’, so they called them ‘the Black Aunt’, ‘the Brown Aunt’ and ‘the White Aunt’. 
The Adamsons, they were upon ‘Drumclyer’ [sic] and wh n Baty Adamson was 
married it was the fashion to give everybody SaiGon i nets, ‘and she had about six. 
They had a big kitchen where the men had their meals and they had shelves put all 
around and she had ‘jerries’ all round the room, fat, cream, butter, everything. She 
said that it was quite all right, they’d never been used. Imagine the men coming in to 
meals in the kitchen with the ‘jerries’ all round, beautiful green and gold and blue, very 
fancy. You know, funny things like that happened. 

Mr H.M. Fisher lived out at Doughboy with Jim Broun - Southbourne they call it now. 
They called it Doughboy because they had a cook out there and he fed them on 
doughboys, but when they started a sheep stud they couldn’t call it the “The Doughboy 
Hall Stud’, so they changed it to Southbourne. 


(serves Were chewnbes ole ) 
F 


Poor old Aunt Nell lived at Haisthorp, Mrs Lukin was her eldest sister, they were both 
Cliftons. Well, she lived there and she worked like a slave for all that family and then 
she married Jim Broun and went over to Doughboy, but no woman worked harder 
than she did. You can imagine in a big farm house like that, and the kitchen was here, 
and you had a mile to go to the dining room; you had to walk across a big open way 
place and then up a long hall and right down; the dining room was in the front and all 
the meals had to be carried. However anyone got a hot meal I’ll never know. They 
had great solid meat covers they used to put over to try and keep it hot. How they 
Kept the flies away -- no fly screens and no fly spray -- I'll never know. They used to 
cook terrific meals and always a hot meal at midday. It didn’t matter what the 
temperature was. It was nothing for 20-30 people to sit down for a meal at Haisthorp 
on Christmas Day. They had a big family and they all came in. After Mr Lukin died, 
she went to Guildford and Jack took on Haisthorp’ until Mary Adamson took it on, I 
don’t think Jack made too good a fist of it, so Mary hopped in to make a go of it. 

Bob Lukin was my age. He was killed in the First World War, and Guy was Helen’s 
age, so we were contemporaries all through and Jack and Kathie were the same age. 
Ruth, she married Cecil Priestly afterwards. Ruth was one of my bridesmaids. Ruth 
and I were always friends -- we stuck right through to the bitter end. Sometimes you 
grow away from people, but we were always close. She went to pieces a bit at the 
end. Often that happens. I sleep very badly and the other day someone said to me, 
“Why don’t you take a good swig of sherry when you go to bed?” And I said, “That’s 
the thin edge of the wedge. Once you start on that -- well! --that’s the end.” I sleep 
badly; well, I'll sleep tomorrow night. 

We knew the de Lisle’s very well. Willie, he was a character. A terrible gambler -- 
they all were in those days. Eddie Lennard. They used to play all night -- poker at the 
pub. His sister came out, Ethel. She was about 26 when she came. They were a 
clergyman’s son and daughter. She was terribly lonely. She was stuck out there on 
her own. Willie would be away all night playing cards and she would be out there 
alone, so she adopted a child. She was about four years. Then there was a great to-do 
as to what she should call her. She wouldn’t have her call her Mum, and she wasn’t 


going to have that or Mother, so she called her Grannie. So she came to be known 


through the district as ‘Granny deLisle’. Then she married Dr House afterwards and 
she was ‘Granny deLisle’, but that was Shy; because of May Middleton, this child. 
Their house is still there now, a brick house, a good home. I don’t know if he built it 
or not or who owned it before Willie DeLisle. He always had a sort of valet, an off- 
sider to look after him. You’d be sitting down by the fire at night and Willie deLisle 
would say, “Vic. I’m going to bed in ten minutes.” Vic. would get up and go out. He 
had to get into Willie’s bed so that when he went to bed it was warm. Then he’d have 
to get out and get into his own cold one. Willie deLisle must have been well off. I 
don’t know where he got his money from. His old father died; the clergyman and his 
mother came out and stayed with him for a while and she was a straight laced old lady 
and she used to look around and say, “The beautiful golden tints.” It was the depth of 
summer and everything was burnt and we were all longing for a bit of green. They 
came from the Channel Islands. The Huguenots came from France to the Channel 
Islands. They went across to England afterwards. But oh! they were characters. 
Granny House was a marvellous woman. When Dr House was up in Broome doing a 
locum, his wife died leaving a baby and Granny took that child and looked after it until 
Dr House came back. Well, she eventually married Dr House and she had a family of 
several children. There was Ethel, Marion, Maurice and Keith. Four first family. 
Maurice was a very delicate child -- they never thought he would live. They said he 
might live to seven, then they thought 17, but he grew up and married, They all went 
to Katanning. Then Granny had Lyle, Sheila. [sic] She was walking from the Doctor’s 
house to the hospital and she fell into the dam and was drowned. She was only about 
two. I can’t remember the others in the family. Of course they were all up in 
Katanning. 

Interviewer: How many rooms were there in Seaton Ross? 

There was a middle front room, that was the sitting room and dining room and 
everything, On that side there was a bedroom, and on that side there was a bedroom, 
and down there, there was a lean- to that was the kitchen; that’s where the fire started 
and at the other end there was another lean-to where the old cook slept. They used to 
carry the meals out of the kitchen and along and up a verandah and around there and 
in; they did it the hard way in those days you know. Another day, before we had the 


calico ceiling put in, a cat jumped through the roof on to Mother. You can imagine 


the force it would land with and all the rubbish. Oh! the dirt, the filth! You can 
imagine these old rushes dropping. The calico ceiling did stop that. Fancy the idea of 
a calico ceiling. But we were very comfortable. When Father and Mother were 
married Uncle Luke Leake, who was Speaker in the House, died -- and there was a 
sale and they furnished from that sale which was nearly all stuff that had come out in 
1829. Beautiful stuff and that was all burnt. When Father’s father died in England -- 
Father was the youngest son -- they sent out his books and Dr Hackett (Sir Winthrop 
Hackett) afterwards said that Father had the best private library in Western Australia at 
that time. I know one of the books was the first edition of the Arabian Nights. They 
were priceless; all burnt. They also sent out a full set of Georgian table silver. It was 
solid silver with a shell pattern, from mustard spoons and salt spoons to a soup ladle 
and a long gravy spoon, that they used when they had a well at the end of the meat 
dish for gravy, and they used the spoon to dip it out. Everything, the full set -- well! -- 
that was all burnt. After the fire it was all collected and taken to a jeweller in Perth to 
do what he could with what was left. I think there were only three tablespoons and 
one of them had a fork handle and five dessert spoons. Well, after my Mother died all 
this went to my brother. All our stuff went to him really, but his wife didn’t value it. 
She didn’t like old stuff anyway. The picture I told you about, well, she stuck it out in 
the garage when they were on the farm and the white ants ate the frame. However, 
they came to Perth to live. They had some water colours and Jack got someone to 
come in from the Museum to value them, but when he saw the crayon drawing they 
said, “Oh! that’s priceless.” So she took a bit of notice of them and had it framed. She 
then thought she had better have the silver valued or what was left of it and she took it 
to someone in Perth and they told her that they had no idea of the value. It was 
beyond them, it was priceless. So she took a bit of notice of that then, but what a 
terrible thing that she didn’t value those things. Another terrible thing that she did, (I 
suppose Jack was as much to blame) -- Father had kept a diary from the time of the 
fire up until he died and he had the weather of every day for all those years, from 1901 
and he died in the ‘30’s and she made a bon fire and burnt them. They too would have 
been priceless. 

I’ve got Norman’s diary. He kept it always. He came out in 1908. In 1910 he was 


working up in Melabbie and the camp was burnt and so he lost the first two diaries 


which would have been frightfully interesting. First impression of West Australia, and 
coming out. He was a medical student and he had never done a hands turn in his life. 
He had been at Edinburgh University and he went up well sinking at Melabbie -- that’s 
75 miles east of Moora. When he got to Moora there was a spring cart and a horse 
and a man had brought it in and he was going south and he was to take it out, 75 miles 
out. IfI hadn’t taught him before he went up, he wouldn’t have known how to put the 
harness on the horse even. Well, he went up there and he came back and went to 
Argyle working on a small timber mill, he was under the saw. They had to use a wheel 
barrow and keep the saw dust away from under the saw. It was meant for a very short 
man and he was over six feet. He worked there until he got a job down on a farm at 
the Williams and he was there for about six months I think. A golfing friend of his 
wrote to him and said, “If you come to Perth immediately I think I can get you a job in 
the Department of Agriculture. To get there he got a train and he went to Collie, from 
Collie to somewhere else. He had to go all around the country to get there. Mr 
Fowley looked a him and said, “You'll have to have a hat. You can’t apply for a job 
without a hat.” So be bought a straw hat and got the job. He went into the office. He 
said, “I didn’t know as much as the office boy. I knew nothing!” He sat down at the 
correspondence and records desk. He worked like mad. He went to night school. He 
lived at Forrest House, in those days 25/- a week full board. Well, he lived there. He 
finished up head of his department anyway and he was there for 30 years in the office 
and he enjoyed every minute of it. He liked people and got on well with them all. One 
of the girls was Nancy Mills; Beryl Mills was the first Miss Australia; she was her 
sister. She came to work one day without any stockings and the boss told her she was 
not to enter the office again without stockings. 

The old Department was next to Government House. It was the original old Post 
Office, where Council Chambers are now. Then afterwards, they went out to Jarrah 
Road, but he never went out there. He used to catch the half-past 7 train in from 
Cottesloe, so he could get to the Post Office. He had a very good friend in the Post 
Office who used to let him collect the mail then so that he could open it up and have it 
ready when the others came in. 

You know, English men do work hard -- they do it the hard way, don’t they? He’d 


never seen inside a kitchen; he wouldn’t have dared to put his nose in the kitchen or 


10 


the cook would haver hunted him at home and yet he was domesticated. He used to 
help me always, dry up and he did all sorts of things. I think it is really marvellous how 
they do that; the different background and the bringing up. He adored his children and 
he adored his grandchildren. They kept him young. He was 96 when he died and he 
loved them all. 

I can remember the South African War because I can remember coming in with Father 
to the Beverley Station to see the first contingent returning from South Africa; they 
had to land at Albany. Frank Parker, who was a cousin of mine, he was in charge of 
that first contingent coming back and we went in to see them as they got off the train 
to have breakfast at the refreshment room. They were old dog boxes of trains, no 
refreshment car or anything in those days; that is why that was such a big place. At the 
station, the Albany train always stopped for meals as they went through. It was a big 
station. At one stage the trains used to stop there overnight. I never knew why they 
didn’t go right through, and they slept there in Beverley. That is why there was all that 
accommodation, but afterwards they just stopped for meals. One day my Mother was 
there with Father and Mr Fisher and they had gone into the bar and Mr Fisher said, 
“Come on Mum, come and have a drink with us”. Mother said, “Oh, no!” Old Stump 
Jump Smith, he was running the refreshment rooms at the time and it had a licence and 
he said, “Mrs Lodge, you’re distingue enough to go anywhere.” So we always 
laughed about Mother being distingue enough to go anywhere! 

Interviewer: Did you know the Stump Jump Smith family? 

Well, we knew them all. There was old William Smith. I don’t think he was married. 
He had a small farm. As you go out on the York Road past the church, it was on the 
left hand side of the road. It was quite a nice house he lived in there. Of course there 
was Horace Smith. He was a marvellous old man. Herbert Smith -- he had abig family 
too, The Smith family were really good yeomen stock. They were wonderful people, 
marvellous people. Herbert, William and Horace Smith -- they were all brothers. 

The Weavers came up just before we left and they went to MtAmy. Chas bought out 
at E. Beverley when he married. Julie -- did you know Julie Weaver? She was in the 
same class as | was. By George, she was a hard case. Yes, she was in the same class - 


- Standard 2, with me. They had a house down opposite where the Dead Finish is. 


11 


They lived down there. There was a big house there. It’s completely gone -- there is 
nothing left now. 

Old Tom Edwards lived up on the hill opposite Seaton Ross and Charles Edwards lived 
down near the river. The little church was half-way between. 

Interviewer: Do you remember any store or blacksmith shop at Seaton Ross? 

No. There was nothing there at all. There was a ruin there. There was the remains of 
an old house there, I remember that, but there was no shop, store or anything down 
there, just the church. 

When our house was burnt down Mrs Charlie Edwards, who lived towards Beverley, 
nearly opposite the Adamsons, I suppose it would be --anyway she lived on the Seaton 
Ross side of the lower road to York. She gave Mother a double bed mattress 
Everyone was marvellous. And do you know, it was filled with parrot feathers. You 
wouldn’t believe it would you? Double bed mattress filled with Twenty-Eights’ 
feathers; they must have lived on them I think. I’ve still got the remains of that 
mattress. It was put into material and made into a sort of eiderdown. Martin 
Robertson has got it. 

Seaton Ross, when we were there, with the thatch roof; Mother had to go down to the 
river and wash in the river water which was very brackish. After the tin roof was put 
on, there were tanks and we had enough water with care, to do it. Mother had an old- 
fashioned basin. It was a lovely blue china with a wooden rail around it and 
underneath there was a plug and you put a bucket there and the water ran through. 
When we were kids Mother used to put some water in that in the morning and that had 
to last all day and when it was very hot, she used to stand us kids in there and she’d 
sponge water over us. There was no water for a bath. She did do it the hard way I 
can tell you. It was that dreadful shortage of water that has stuck in my mind, that 
awful lack of fresh water. The one little soak --we’d only get two or three kerosene 
tins of water out of the soak to last you all day. That was for everything, cooking, 
drinking. It was terrible and left it on a child’s mind. When we went to Busselton you 
only had to dig a hole in the ground for a couple of feet and you could always get 
water, fresh water. 

We had cows down there. Jack and I used to milk six cows and feed the calves and 


catch our horses and ride to school, nearly four miles. I rode on a side saddle with a 


12 


habit and when I got thjere we used to unsaddle and turn the horses out. Then I had to 
go and get my school uniform on. We went to a convent. We went through the same 
thing in the afternoon. We had to catch the horses, ride home, milk the cows again, 
but we never thought anyfthing of it. It’s all comparison -- everyone had to do that 
sort of thing so we didn’t care. We managed to enjoy every minute of our lives. One 
day I wasn’t very well and Jack started off on his own. He hadn’t been gone very long 
when he came back crying. Mother said, “What’s the matter?” and Jack said, “Oh 
Mother don’t make me go to school. Old Ben (that was the horse) ran off on to the 
side track and I got knocked off by a branch and I was nearly knocked sensible.” 
When we were at Seaton Ross Emily Grover was our general servant and she did the 
cooking a a bit of the housework that Mother didn’t do, She was with us for years; we 
all loved Emily. I’m not sure if she did the washing or if she and Mother did it 
together when they had to go down to the river and do it in the tub. The old tubs, you 
had to empty them and fill them, dragging up the water. Even when we went to 
Busselton. Of course we had rain water, but what we had, we thought was the most 
marvellous a: a a wringer and we had an old copper with a piece of 
corrugated(foh around to keep the draught out and you had to stoke it. Of course the 
good old washing board. We did it the hard way those days. There was nothing to 
help you; no basket on wheels. You had a great big old wicker basket that took two of 
you to carry. It’s amazing how you get used to these things. Jack and I were home. 
Helen, she was older and she got out. She went lady helping, that was the only way 
you could earn money in those days. She was lady-help to the Doctor and Granny 
House at Katanning for a while. She was there when Marian deLisle came out from 
England, Then she was lady-help down at Pinjarra and she always had money you see, 
and I never had any money, but that didn’t seem to sorry me. Jack didn’t have any 
either. We would be working about at home and Helen would come home and be 
quite the lady. She was a bit older than I was and I used to say, “I don’t think it is fair. 
Helen does the flowers and I have to scrub the kitchen floor.” I reckon I’ve spent my 
life doing that. I’ve worked hard all my life and I’ve never earned sixpence, never 
earned any money at all. 

We’ ve been to England four times, but someone else has paid the fares; Norman’s 


people paid the fares. We arrived in England with the two little boys in 1920. When 


13 


we arrived at St Brivels[?], that was the little station, and Norman had exactly 8/6d.. 
That was all we owned in the world. We were eleven weeks at home and living in the 
lap of luxury of course. We came back on the Aberdeen White Star and it took about 
six weeks and we came via the Cape and we landed at Albany and came on by train. 
They had migrants on the whole ship. WELL, I reckon the only two clean things on 
that ship were my two kids. It was one class. I’d made cotton crepe romper suits for 
the tropics. They had two each; I used to rinse them out. Oh! the filth of them; they 
had no idea of hygiene at all. The lavatories were frightful; the kids used to go in and 
mess all over the floor, they had no idea. Wasn’t I glad to get off that boat. Norman 
started back at work at once. Jan was the youngest; she was born in -29 and the 
Depression was on and Norman worked. The Government servants then worked three 
weeks and they were put off for a week. The week they were off they weren’t paid. 
We still had the rent to pay and we were only just making out square when we were on 
full money without that. When we got married Norman was only getting 3 pounds ten 
shillings a week and we paid rent. How we lived I don’t know, but I don’t think it 
hurts you to be a bit hard up. It teaches you the value of money. 

My Father learnt farming in the south of England before he came out here. He always 
wore a cloth cap and tweeds and a Norfolk jacket and spats over his boots. He was 
more English when he died than he ever was when he came out; he got more English 
as he got older. I remember when Norman went to him and told him we wanted to be 
engaged, all that Father said was, “Thank God you are an Englishman!” He was 
terribly English. 

He took a load of horses for Maitland Brown up to India for the Indian Army; he had a 
brother-in-law who was a Colonel in the Gurka Regiment and he stayed with him and 
he had a whale of a time. Right up his alley. He was a very good judge of heavy 
horses; he was keen on horses. He was a very conscientious sort of farmer, but he 
never did much work. I never remember Father doing much work; he always got some 
one else to do the work for him. He died at 86 at Cottesloe. They came to live next 
door to us. Mother lived until she was 79. They lived next door so I could look after 
them, After Father died, Fred slept on the verandah so she wouldn’t be alone; she 
used to have her evening meal with us and she came in and stayed with the kids and us 


or go home as she liked. Three generations in one house don’t mix anyway. I could 


14 


see she had a good meal and I looked after her like that. It was a wonderful 
arrangement. She was a great person for buying Charities Tickets and Father used to 
say she wasted her money. One day she came in with some pennies, 3d and 6d and 
wanted Fred to get her a ticket. I think they were 5/-d. She won 1 thousand pounds 
with that ticket. Mother took my sister Helen and me to Fiji for a trip. All her life she 
had wanted to go to Fiji, so we had that trip. When she was ill at the end -- she was 
really worn out -- she had two nurses, one day and one night. She said, “Isn’t it 
marvellous. I can lie here and have two nurses and I can pay them.” It was her own 
money. 

Jan is a bit like Mother; always bright and cheerful. In the old days in the country they 
used to say , “Send for Mrs Lodge.” It didn’t matter whether they were having a baby 
or what it was, Mother would always go. Two o’clock in the morning someone would 
come and you’d see Mother going out; someone’s baby had convulsions or something. 
She had never done any nursing but she was practical. It was always , “Ask for Mrs 
Lodge.” We had a funny phaeton thing she used to drive in. They all wore toques in 
those days; no brim to your hat. Mother got a mushroom hat and took the crown out 
and put it over her toques because she couldn’t drive the horse and hit it, and use the 
parasol. She went to a Ladies’ Guild Meeting and old Mr Darling, who was a perfect 
English gentleman said, “Mrs Lodge, I’m afraid you’ ve forgotten to take your 
verandah off.” Mother always called it her verandah. She played croquet -- she used 
to do all sorts of things. Father never went out; he wouldn’t go out at all -- he 
wouldn’t go out at night. If there was Euchre on, Mother went; she’d drive in four 
miles to go. One night she was playing Euchre and said to a woman who was playing 
with her, “Would you like a lift home?” She knew she lived on the road out. She said, 
“That might be a help, because John will be on his rounds.” John was the nightman 
and he had to leave the card party to go on his rounds. 

There were seven girls in the Leak family. The eldest one, Mary, married Bishop 
Barry, Jessie married Col. Skinner, who was in the Indian Army. Amy married Henry 
Parker -- one of the Parkers from York, who was afterwards Sir Henry Parker. He 
was Chief Justice. They had an enormous family. Then Uncle George came; he died 
while he was Premier of the State. Then Jack, he died in his teens, then Mother. 


Grandpa used to caller her Captain of the second brigade because there were three 


15 


sisters younger. Rose, she married Cecil Clifton, who was a civil servant. Janie 
Adam, then Blanche who married Dr Kelsall. Mother said she spent all her youth 
being snubbed by her elders and when she got older she had to make clothes for the 
younger ones. Her Mother was an invalid and Grandfather used to entertain a bit and 
she used to be hostess. She was only a girl and she said she got so precocious that 
“they sent me away to Adelaide to a finishing school for a year to get it out of me.” 
She was one of these women who never lost her dignity. She never put on any side -- 
I mean she was everybody’s friend but she always was dignified. She used to sit up 
very straight. I remember she was terribly hard up and she only had one white dress, a 
fine crepe. She used to wear this dress, wash it and wear it again. One day she was 
coming home and this horse we had, it had belonged to a baker’s cart. It would stop 
and start. She got out to open the gate and the horse raced home with the buggy. 
Mother was left to run about a quarter of a mile down the road. Then she had a long 
rope and when she got out, she would put the rope through the reins and hold him. 
My word, they were hard times. You hear people growl now, and I get so mad with 


them, because they have every blessed thing. 


Both my boys were killed in the war. Fred and Dennis. Fred went in the Second 16th 
to the Middle East. He was killed there. Dennis was in the Air Force and he was lost 
at Balikpapan, The plane came down in the sea six weeks before the Japs pulled out; 
nearly got through. He joined up in the very beginning but just couldn’t make it. That 
nearly killed my husband when Fred was killed. He adored his eldest boy. He was just 
over sixty and he said, “I can’t work any longer in the Agriculture Department, the 
walls are closing in on me. I must get out!” He just got out in time because after he 
got out they wouldn’t let any man out under 65 during the war. So he spent his life 
out of doors, fishing on the jetty. He couldn’t take it. Then of course at the very end 
Dennis was killed, we had an awful war. Pat, my eldest daughter, she was married. 
Her husband came from South Africa and he was in the Second 16th with the boys and 
he came back. He had a week’s leave and they were married and then he went up to 
New Guinea and he was killed there. So we lost both our boys and our son-in-law. 
Pat was widowed at 21, and lost both her brothers and you know she has never got 


over it really. It did something to her. Jan was our youngest daughter, only about ten 


16 


years. All the war years in our family were spent protecting Jan. We never mentioned 
anything about it when she was there. We tried to keep everything as normal as 
possible. Losing first one and then the other for child of ten was a terrible experience, 
but she overcame it, She’s the most amazing person, Jan, Pat never really got over it, 
she worries terribly and you know it’s all the result of the war years. 

Jan is like her Father to look at and Pat is like me. Dennis was like me and Fred was 
like Norman and Jan. They had blue eyes. The others had what they used to say, “Oh, 
they’ve got eyes like Mum, like the colour of gilgies’ eyes before they’re cooked.” 
Beth (Bailey) was engaged to Fred, my eldest son. The Crombies lived near us. Beth 
has always been like a daughter to us. You know we lived two lives; one before the 
war and one after. They’re disconnected you see, They were all there before, then 


after, it was all different, a different life altogether. 


This is a copy of a photocopied document owned by Helen Margaret Wilson, 


Claremont, W.A. It was copied by Judith Hall, Melbourne, Victoria in January, 1998. 


It should be noted that only two types of alteration have been made to the photocopy: 
(a) obvious typing errors and spelling mistakes 


(b) some additions or changes to punctuation so that it reads more easily. 


The actual wording has not been changed. 
I would query the spelling of Yangedine (is it without the final ‘e’?), and one or two 


other names, but have left them as in the photocopy. 


Personal note: 
It is interesting to read Joan Martin’s account of her life, alongside that written 
by Constance Berryman. Connie spent three years with her grandparents, Tom 
and Connie Lodge, and gives a different perspective on life there. It is 
interesting to note that Joan does not refer to the time that Connie spent with 
them. Connie also gives a brief account of how her grandparents met and other 


detail that complements some of the information here.Perhaps, as descendants, 


17 


we should note the occurrence of hare lips twice in the Leake family. There is 
Jack Lodge, who is mentioned here, but also his cousin Molly Skinner, the 


daughter of Jessie Leake, who married Col. Skinner. 


There is a story I have heard from my Mother (Margaret Wilson) about Joan 
and Norman’s first visit back to the U.K. to visit Norman’s parents. After their 
arrival in England, they travelled by train up the Wye Valley. As my Mother 
tells it, church bells were to be heard as they passed through each small, 
country railway station. Later Joan was to hear that this was the Valley’s way 
of welcoming newcomers. Apparently Norman’s parents had organised this 
welcome even though they did not know whether their new daughter-in-law 


from the colonies, was to turn out to be black or white! 


Aunt Joan does not give any detail of this first trip ‘home’ in this account. If 


Mother’s story is true, then I think it is worth adding here. 


