---
template: item
itemtype: letter
parent_item: 264
title: 1928-06-22 Teesdale to Aubrey Hall
author: 
images:
  - commons: 1928-06-22 Teesdale to Aubrey Hall (03).jpg
    caption:
  - commons: 1928-06-22 Teesdale to Aubrey Hall (04).jpg
    caption:
  - commons: 1928-06-22 Teesdale to Aubrey Hall (01).jpg
    caption:
  - commons: 1928-06-22 Teesdale to Aubrey Hall (02).jpg
    caption: 
license: pd
pd_year: 
storage_location:
storage_location_key:
date: 1928-06-22
date_precision: day
wikidata: 
people:
  - frederick-teesdale
  - harold-aubrey-hall
tags:
  - Carnarvon
  - 
description: Letter from Fred Teesdale to Aubrey Hall regarding the marketability of dugong leather and oil.
---

## Transcription

PERTH W.A.{br}
JUN 22{br}
4 PM<br>
1928

AUBREY. H.HALL Esq{br}
CARNARVON.{br}
Nor West

Air Mail

{{{page-break}}}

T & G Chambers PERTH.{br}
June 22/28

DEAR AUBREY.

Yours of the L9th inst received & I do not know what
to think about the Dugong Hides I am sure.
I think you would be well advised to write the Industry of Science
& Industry Barrack St Perth.

Do not tell them where you got them from, but ask them to let the
MARKETING BOARDS STAFF loose on the business in London.

It maybe be that there are firms that just want this heavy hide for
certain thick washers etc for machinery & would be glad to get in
touch with some one who can supply them regularly.

I am told that there is a good supply at certain times of the yea
at your town & the oil is surely worth exploiting as one has to p
pay like hell for decent oil ehre & I think a lot of is is shark.

If the Board get going on this & they will( or write to me at once)
also find outabout the market for oil as well & we may get valuable
information & get going with the export trade.

The Sydney firm are just now confined to the Shark Hide business &
as the company are in process of removing their plant here I do not
think it is a good time to approach them.

After you hear from Mc Cartney( Secty of the Science Baord) write
me as to what he says & tell him MR TEESDALE advised you to write
him on this matter & that I felt sure he would do everything to
help you in ascertaining what markets existed for this article.

I hope you have had good rains & that the CAMELS are not straying
on the east side of the commonage again, surely you must have a
bad time with so many energetic BUMBLES on your tail.

With Kind Regards & assuring you I have had your case in mind right
my Shark negotiations & that if if the company is floated you will a
least have my heavt weight for a suitable position in the venture

Am Faithfully Yours

Fred Teesdale
