---
template: item
itemtype: ephemera
parent_item: 
title: Winnie Hall to Helen Hall
author: Esther Winifred Hall (née Smalpage)
images:
  - ia: HMW312
    ia_leaf: 0
    caption: 
  - ia: HMW312
    ia_leaf: 1
    caption:
  - ia: HMW312
    ia_leaf: 2
    caption:
  - ia: HMW312
    ia_leaf: 3
    caption:
license: pd
pd_year:
date: 1915-07-17
date_precision: day
storage_location: ajw
storage_location_key: 
wikidata: 
people:
  - helen-rose-lodge
tags:
  - letters
  - croydon
description: 
---

## Transcription

{link|tags/croydon|Croydon Stn.} \
July 17th 15.

Dear {link|people/helen-rose-lodge|Helen}

Our congratulations to the arrival
of the dear wee baby, I do hope you are
feeling {?} better now {?|fancy} baby is a week
old how the time does fly, you no doubt will
get a shock when you do actually receive
a few lines from me, I am a {?|horrid} old
correspondent but I hope you'll forgive me &
write to let me know if you are keeping well.

Helen dear we want you do come and stay
with us for a while when you come north again
I think if possible you should come straight out
on your arrival & if would do you good & give
you a chance to get strong after your confinement,
I do not know when Aubrey is getting you
up I must ask him. Ernest & Aubrey could
meet you with the car I could stay by myself
for a day or so. Oh! while I think of it I told
Aubrey yesterday of two nice little cots that
are in the old Sherlock homestead, one is
quite a nice size for Constance & in good order
& the other a dear little one for a wee baby, so

{{{page-break}}}

I think he is going to write about them, you may
get them for next to nothing as I don't expect
Sam McKay is wanting them, I intended
trying to get the big one, but Henty does not
roll out of bed now. It is such a treat to have
a cot, one feels that a baby is safe, the {?}
bars on the big cot are very close together & the other
is made with wire gauge all round, so I hope
you get them. Have you heard from jack lately?
I do hope he is quite well.

Aubrey is quite well & pretty
busy as we hope to start shearing the first
week in August & poor old Ernest is only
able to get about on crutches, having been
kicked by a horse about 3 wks ago, nearly
had his leg broken, but the swelling is
going down & it is much better but I think
it will take several months to get strong.

Helen when you come back I
think you ought to bring some homoeopathic
medicines in case you were away from a
doctor anytime, I find it necessary, these are
a few good ones, {?|Aconite, Belladouura,
Chamomilla, Ipecaeuauha, Concentrated tinctus
of camphor}. Now Helen I must bring
this to a close, hoping to hear how you

{{{page-break}}}

all are soon with love from us all &
Kind Regards to your mother (I imagine
I know them) & father

Yours lovingly \
Winnie Hall
