---
template: item
itemtype: letter
parent_item: 
title: Letter of three days from Murray Wilson to Margaret, starting 1945-10-26
author: william-murray-wilson
images:
  - ia: HMW315
    ia_leaf: 0
  - ia: HMW315
    ia_leaf: 1
  - ia: HMW315
    ia_leaf: 2
  - ia: HMW315
    ia_leaf: 3
  - ia: HMW315
    ia_leaf: 4
  - ia: HMW315
    ia_leaf: 5
  - ia: HMW315
    ia_leaf: 6
  - ia: HMW315
    ia_leaf: 7
  - ia: HMW315
    ia_leaf: 8
  - ia: HMW315
    ia_leaf: 9
  - ia: HMW315
    ia_leaf: 10
license: pd
pd_year: 2024
date: 1945-10-26
date_precision: month
storage_location: 
storage_location_key: 
wikidata: 
people:
  - william-murray-wilson
  - helen-margaret-hall
tags:
  - letters
  - ww2
description: A letter of three parts, written in October and November 1954 by Murray Wilson to his wife Margaret.
---

## Transcription

406376 F/Lt W.M. Wilson\
Group 679 RAAF Pacific \
Friday 26th Oct 45.

My Own Beloved,

Tomorrow we leave Tokyo my sweet & I
must say I'm very glad of it. We're only going
as far as Kamaya, right in the south of Japan
then the next day will go to Lasag, stopping
at Okinawa on the way & then the following
day we hope to get to Lahnan. Gosh it will
be good to get back there & get some mail
darling. That's the big thing about getting
away from here — oh I do want a letter or
two from my wife so badly beloved & in
just a few days I'll have some. It's such a
good thought.

This trip has been good that it's let us
see a bit of Japan & get some idea of how the
surrender is going & also get an idea of
how the people here {?} it all. This place
we've been staying at has been great for
getting different ?? from the ??
& then last night we spoke for a long time
with a Jap who was very good on his English
& we get this idea. All most interesting.

Yesterday I got a few back copies of the
"Nippon Times" & I think I'll post them home
from Laboun. There's lots of interesting

{{{page-break}}}

2

reading in them & perhaps we can peruse
them at leisure together later on. I'd rather
post them than carry them as I don't want
to have too much to take with me on the
trip home.

This afternoon we had quite a good
trip to Yokahama — it's about fifteen or twenty miles
south of Tokyo but really the two cities
run into each other. The damage is truly
amazing. All the way it's just one great ??
of burnt ?? land — one can't say burnt
out buildings as there aren't any shells
left — every thing is flat on the ground,
just a litter of rusting iron. Here & there
of course there are parts that escaped
but they are very few. The outstanding
thing I thought was the number of office
safes there are just standing in the open.
They're all that's left of hudnreds of buildings
& offices & factories — they're rusty &
all broken open, but they still stand
there as a reminder that once that place
was a building. I didn't realise before
that a city had so many safes before. The
thing is that all of these buildings were just
wood & iron. The tale that Tokya would
burn well was very true.

{{{page-break}}}

3

While at Yokahama we found an
American officers
