---
template: item
itemtype: letter
parent_item: 335
title: 6 September 1943, airgraph from Edith to Murray
author: edith-olive-hall
images:
  - commons: Airgraph 1943-09-06 Edith to Murray.png
    caption: 
license: pd
pd_year:
date: 1943-09-06
date_precision: day
storage_location: folder2
storage_location_key: 157
wikidata: 
people:
  - edith-olive-hall
  - william-murray-wilson
tags:
  - letters
  - ww2
  - 98 Herbert Road, Shenton Park
description:
---

## Transcription

98 Herbert Rd\
Shenton Park\
Perth WA\
Sept 6th 1943

My dear Murray,

We returned
from the Bay last Friday, & on
Saturday your cables came to Margaret,
& to me. Thank you for so much dear, it is
good to know that the letters had
reached you so soon, & the a/g is a
great idea. I had let the cottage for half of December and
all of January already. Have to get the stove repaired but
{?} is going to do it for me, {?} cost about £5 but
will be as good as new, & I hope, set in much better
than formerly. There is great demand for houses there, and
have requests constantly, even as early as August.

Pat rang me this afternoon, having arrived from Melb
yesterday, & and is coming to lunch tomorrow, I shall be very
glad to see her. Then a little later {?|Rene} rang me.
She was at Hollywood for a few days, & will also come
here tomorrow. If only we had Rae too. It would be
wonderful, Rene told me that a couple of {?|Sixers} had
{?}, one on sick leave, & responded that Rae was
perfectly well. She has not had any malaria, & looks
splendid. I sent her a very nice fine lawn nightie, &
some films for her birthday, the silk is no good there,
it just perishes. Also in another parcel towels, writing
pads & perfume, some of the {?} from Margaret. She
says it is always hot there, but sometimes hotter.

Had good report of Gordon. He was hoping to be allowed
up {?} a short time in a few days, but his operation
being a major one would mean a good while in hospital
& a month at the convalescent depot at {?|Washington}.
Maime & Charlie had both been to see him & have {?}
& {?} to me. He has had every attention & they are
very satisfied with his progress. Today Margaret had an
airgraph from you. Take care of yourself — all my love

Ever your loving mother. EDITH OLIVE WILSON. E O Wilson.
