---
template: item
itemtype: letter
parent_item: 335
title: Airgraph 1943-09-15 Edith to Murray
author: edith-olive-hall
images:
  - commons: Airgraph 1943-09-15 Edith to Murray.png
    caption: 
license: pd
pd_year:
date: 1943-09-15
date_precision: day
storage_location: folder2
storage_location_key: 150
wikidata: 
people:
  - edith-olive-hall
  - william-murray-wilson
tags:
  - letters
  - ww2
description: 
---

## Transcription

AUS 406376\
P/O W.M.WILSON.\
R.A.F. STATION.\
GIANACLIS. MIDDLE.EAST.

SHENTON PARK\
16SE43

98 Herbert Road\
Shenton Park. W.A.

Sept 15th 1943.

My dear Murray,

Your cable recd today, & replied
to at once, thank you so much for it.
John posted "70 & 71" letter for me, but
I do not know if you ahve recd them. I shall post them
myself in future by boat mail & a/g. I had a quite pleasant
birthday, but greatly missed my loved absent ones. I only
hope by next year you will all be at home again. Today
is Rae's birthday, I hope she has a good day & not too much work.
On Friday we are going to Margaret's to lunch, Pat is here on leave,
& will go also, & then will see Joan when she returns to Melb.
Gordon is out of hospital, staying with Uncle Charlie, on leave,
he lost 18 lbs in weight after this operation. Quite a heavy snow
fall at Sherbrooke last Sunday. He enjoyed seeing it for the
first time. I am posting a parcel to you next week,
with a pr of long sox which I have knitted for you. I hope they fit & suit. You are sure to like the other things. Hope they reach you in time for Xmas, & not late. I do not have much news to tell you, writing & knitting take up a great deal of time, and I lead a very quiet life as you know. You had better tell me if you can read my a/gs, or if they are too cramped. Adele gave me 3 laying pullets, we have had eleven egs in tive days, so they are good. So nice to have them fresh from the nests. Tae sent me some negatives to have printed, she does not like keeping the negs there, they are apt to spoil. Hope you are well, & taking every care of yourself. We all would be glad if you could come to Christmas dinner with us, but I suppose we cannot rely on your accepting the invitation. Still one never knows what the future may bring, & there is no harm in hoping is there dear. We are all well. With heaps of love, your ever lovingly Mother.

E.O. Wilson. EDITH.OLIVE.WILSON.
