---
template: item
itemtype: letter
parent_item: 335
title: Airgraph 1943-09-30 Edith to Murray
author: edith-olive-hall
images:
  - commons: Airgraph 1943-09-30 Edith to Murray.png
    caption: 
license: pd
pd_year:
date: 1943-09-30
date_precision: day
storage_location: folder2
storage_location_key: 153
wikidata: 
people:
  - edith-olive-hall
tags:
  - 
description: 
---

## Transcription

AUS 406376\
P/O W.M. WILSON.\
RAF STATION\
GIANACLIS\
MIDDLE EAST

98 Herbert Rd\
Shenton Park\
Perth WA

Sept 30th 1943.

No 7.

My dear Murray,

I posted a parcel to you
on Sept 24th so I hope that you
receive it safely by Christmas.
I addressed it to RAF Station
Gianaclis the address given in Margaret's last airgraph
There is word of Rae having leave in the near future
for which we are all delighted, but of course do
not know just when it will be. She has had two
weeks home leave, plus 6 hours the day they arrived
from ME in March '42, in over 3 years service.
Hope the sox I knitted for you are the correct size
if not, let me have your measurements, & let one of
the others have them if suitable. Hope they fit you dear.
We are hoping that with the winter ended, and
the beautiful sunshine, all colds etc will be a
thing of the past. Will you let me know if you
have received my letters written on July 21, no 70,
& no 71. August 10th. I have only written airgraphs
since then. John has just had a fortnight at home
& has done a good deal in the garden. My 3 pullets,
which Adele gave me for my birthday have laid
42 eggs in 18 days. We were not ready for them would
Sept 11th Jim brought then over in the evening.
Took some flowers & spinach over to Margaret yesterday,
out of the garden. Have some salads in, but hot yet
ready. Jim's lettuce are beautiful & they have given
me several. Had lunch with Irene & her mother & then
to the {?} yesterday. Hoping to hear from you soon.
Gordon reports on Oct 4th for duty. Has gained much "lost" weight.
Take care of yourself. With all my love, ever your loving,
Mother.

EDITH OLIVE WILSON. EO Wilson, Papers posted.
