---
template: item
itemtype: letter
parent_item: 335
title: Airgraph 1943-10-02 Edith to Murray
author: 
images:
  - commons: Airgraph 1943-10-02 Edith to Murray.png
    caption: 
license: pd
pd_year:
date: 1943-10-02
date_precision: day
storage_location: folder2
storage_location_key: 154
wikidata: 
people:
  - 
tags:
  - 
description: 
---

## Transcription

AUG406376\
P/O W.M. WILSON\
ROYAL AIR FORCE. STN.\
GIANACLIS.\
MIDDLE. EAST.

POSTE RESTANT\
WEST AUSTRALIA

98 Herbert Rd
Shenton Park.

Oct 2nd 1943

No 8.

My dear Murray,

Last night I received a grand wire from Rae saying "Arrived first stop will keep you posted, it's a beaut feeling love Rae". Its "sixteen" since she was at home, & almost a year since they arrived in N.G. will not know what leave she will have yet, but it will be marvellous to have her home. When she was here in May last year Father was here to welcome here also, and it will be very hard for us both. In one way I'd rather not have others in the house, when {?|they}"Children" come home, but one had to help others, and it is not so lonely generally for me, and these people are the best I could have to be here, if I have to have outsiders, but although I was alone, I was not "lonely" at all.

Tomorrow afternoon Dick {?|Dawson} is coming down, & we are going to the Cemetery, & then she will {{?|return}} with me for tea. Her mother died some months ago. This afternoon Helen & I walked thru' the King's Park. I wanted to show her the Kangaroo Paws after having been to the wild flower show we called in to Margaret's & had very nice talk & tea. Judith was having a few little friends to an impromptu party on the back lawn. Take care of yourself, we shall have you with us in spirit {?}. Only wish you could really be here, all my fondest love

Ever your loving Mother,

EO Wilson

EDITH.OLIVE.WILSON.
