---
template: item
itemtype: ephemera
parent_item: 
title: Cossack Re-opens Amid Celebrations
author: 
images:
  - commons: 
    commons_page: 
    flickr: 
    ia: 
    ia_file: 
    ia_leaf: 
    caption: 
license: copyright
pd_year:
date: 1979-06-14
date_precision: day
storage_location: nla
storage_location_key: news-article214547359
wikidata: 
people:
  - 
tags:
  - 
description: 
---

COSSACK RE-OPENS AMID CELEBRATIONS (1979, June 14). Hamersley News (Perth, WA : 1969 - 1987), p. 16. Retrieved April 15, 2026, from http://nla.gov.au/nla.news-article214547359 

## Transcription

The spirit of the late 1800s was revived when Cossack
was officially re-opened as a historical and recreational centre
on Sunday May 13 by the Premier of Western Australia, Sir
Charles Court.

This ceremony was the first in a series of events organised
by the Way '79 Reobourne Shire Committee.

As the major event of Way '79 in the Pilbara, the
re-opening celebrations ran from May 13–27.

Had the Chairman of the Cossack Town
Council in 1875, Mr. William Shakespeare
Hall, been present he would have been both
proud and a little astonished.

As an estimated 1500 people streamed into
Cossack, cars jammed the streets and parking
became almost non-existent.

Proceedings commenced with a re-enactment
of the landing of the Withnell family
by the Wickham Amateur Theatre Society.

John Withnell, his wife Emma, John Hancock
and his sister Fanny rowned in from the imaginary
Sea Ripple, and received a bigger welcome
than their counterparts in 1864.

Following several speeches, Sir Charles Court unveiled
a plaque commemorating the occasion and Cossack
was officially re-opened.

The occasion was enhanced by the presence of a number
of descendents of the Cossack pioneers dressed in clothes
typical of the times.

Among them was Mrs. Margaret Wilson (William Shakespeare
Hall's grand-daughter), Joan Wallace from Queensland, Mrs.
Hancock, and Mr. J. Edney (Edney family), A.G. Withnell and
Mrs. Nancy Taylor (John Withnell's great grand-daughter),
Edgar Truslove, Mrs. Penny Davy (R.J. Schell's grand-daughter),
various members of the Thompson family including Mr.
and Mrs. Dowling and Mrs. Philippe from Victoria.

A pioneers luncheon was held for the descendents in the
Cossack customs house on Tuesday May 15 with approximately
150 people attending. Roasts, trifles, pies, pickled
onions and cheese were all prepared and cooked in traditional
pioneering style.

'Of Barque and Battleship', a play written my Mrs. Margaret
Hamilton of Perth and performed by the Dampier and Districts
Repertory Company was a highlight of the Cossack celebrations.

The pilbara Regional Administrators office commissioned
the play with financial and technical assistance from the Way
'79 Entertainment Committee and the W.A. Arts Council.

Taking the form of a narrative interwoven with re-enacted
scenes, the play brought to life many of the major events in
the history of Cossack.

The play opened on Wednesday May 16 with a full
house and ran until May 19.

A unique setting was provided by utilising the
verandah alongside the customs house with the seating
being out in the open air.

Minor misfortune struck on the third night of
the play when rain poured down just beforeI would suggest reading through [the Gerrit tutorial](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Gerrit/Tutorial#Submit_a_patch) or other documentation, to get more of an idea of how Gerrit works. It's a bit of a different system to what most people are used to!
curtain time. But 'the show must go on' and
with the adaptability of the pioneers, seats,
lights, sets and sound equipment were
transferred into the customs house. The
large audience were not disappointed although
the rain dinning on the tin roof created
background effect with a difference.
On Saturday May 19 and Sunday 20, activities
were provided for family enjoyment.
Local arts and crafts, a treasure hunt, and old pistols
were displayed while overhead the Whickham
Skydivers and the Pilbara Soaring Club performed
their skills.

During the mornings of the school holidays, earth games
were conducted for the children down on Settlers Beach.

Sunday May 27 saw the final two events. A 'Fun-Run'
from the Whickham to Cossack got underway at 9am. More
than one hundred and sevent men, women and children
lined up at Elders, Wickham, for the run. Ray Purdue of
Port Hedland was first across the line of the 11.5km course
in forty minutes twenty eight seconds. He won and air
ticket to Sydney to compete in the City-to-Surf race in
August. Deidre Criddle was the first woman across the line
and to prove that age is no barrier, even four year old
Simon McGill completed the run.

In the afternoon, a combined thanksgiving service led by
representatives of the Ministers Fraternal was held in the
Cossack customs house to round off what had been a
successful two weeks of many and varied events.
