---
template: item
itemtype: ephemera
parent_item: 
title: 1944-09-03 Max Glenn to Murray Wilson
author: max-glenn
images:
  - ia: HMW351
    ia_leaf: 0
  - ia: HMW351
    ia_leaf: 1
  - ia: HMW351
    ia_leaf: 2
  - ia: HMW351
    ia_leaf: 3
  - ia: HMW351
    ia_leaf: 4
license: copyright
pd_year:
date: 1944-09-03
date_precision: day
storage_location: 
storage_location_key: 
wikidata: 
people:
  - william-murray-wilson
  - max-glenn
tags:
  - 
description: 
---

## Transcription

406376\
F/O/ Wilson W.M.\
Gorup 469
RAAF
East Sale

{{{page-break}}}

F/O Glenn M.G.\
403162\
Officers' Mess\
RAAF Station\
{wdl|Q7274962|Rathmines}\
3rd Sept.

Dear Murray,

Sorry I haven't replied
to your letter before, but the last
few weeks up here I have been
kept rather busy. They try to
cram everything into you in the
shortest possible time. They really
{?} this you know. When I
leave this place & I mean when
I should be fit to be captain on
any Vessel. It's a very good
course but too much theory
to it for me. You know they
work us until we just about
drop if we fly all night
they want us for {?} 7.30am
next morning or the same morning

{{{page-break}}}

(2)

if that's is the case

Had a letter from Ron & he
was waiting on one from you. He
seems to be quite happy about
his posting & by the way he is
going I won't be started
before he finishes. Won't I
get it when we meet up, he'll
be telling me to get some in.
We haven't done anything these
days you know unless we have
them up north, that's what they
think here anyway.

I have been off two Sundays
since arriving & spent them
both in Loronto the local town
not a bad spot at all a
very pretty place & when summer
gets here it will be beautiful.

IU have been grounded for a
few days under observation. Strained
the muscles of my belly.

{{{page-break}}}

The Doc reckons the case puzzles
him, only I reckon {?|it} happened
by over doing it at P.T.
tho' he is heard to tell anything.

Well Murray old son my
commission eventually caught
up with me & 3 weeks later
low & behold am F/O. Good
thing, bags of money.

Hear {?|Pater} arrived in last
night not looking too pelased about
his posting.

Alec {?|Teal}, {?|Facius} & {?|Pember} are
about all you know that are here.
{?|Hector} just dropped in & is on
his way for 7 days leave a
lucky man what.

Just decided to crack a bottle. So
I will have one for you.

Well Murray remember me to
your wife and Judith also to

{{{page-break}}}

the boys down your way
for now chumie all the
best of luck.

Max
