---
template: item
itemtype: letter
parent_item: 
title: 1945-04-01 Murray to Margaret
author: william-murray-wilson
images:
  - ia: HMW353
    ia_leaf: 0
    caption: 
license: pd
pd_year: 2024
date: 1945-04-01
date_precision: day
storage_location: 
storage_location_key: 
wikidata: 
people:
  - william-murray-wilson
  - helen-margaret-hall
tags:
  - Darwin
description: 
todo: Transcribe 11 more handwritten neat pages.
---

## Transcription

406376 F/O W.M. Wilson\
Group 679 RAAF Darwin\
Sunday 1st April 45

Margaret my 'loved,

Such a disappointment awaited
me when I got back to the squadron
just before lunch sweetheart. After
my five days wait I was sure I'd
find a letter or two but when I got
there the cupboard was bare.

I'd had visions of spending the
afternoon reading letter from
you & writing to you but instead
I had a sleep until a bit before
tea time. Then I had tea & was just
walking out of the mess afterward
when I saw someone reading a
letter — a sure sign that some mail
had arrived. I dashed out &
found three — yes three wonderful
letters from my loved oh
darling how glorious it was. I'd
been sort of living for them for
a day or two & felt a bit set back when

{{{page-break}}}

2

I missed out, but when I saw them
& got my hands on them I felt so
happy all of a sudden — everything
was good & bright again because
I had letters from my wife. Gosh
beloved they mean just everything
to me, I'm afraid we've spoilt
each other with such frequent letters,
but it's nice to spoil the one you
love so dearly, & in turn be spoilt too,
& our letters do make just all the different
in the world to us now &
help us to put up with being apart.
I'm sure I'd go nuts without them
sweetheart.

Besides your three there was one
from Uncle Charlie dated 23rd Jan
& your parcel of {?|mantles} — in perfect
condition. Thank you sweet for the
mantles, I'm afraid they were a lot
of bother to you but now we have
a good light & {?|Smiles} has one too.
It's strange how they arrived —
the parcel had a 2d stamp & the

{{{page-break}}}


