---
template: item
itemtype: ephemera
parent_item: 
title: 1945-04-04 Murray to Margaret
author: william-murray-wilson
images:
  - ia: HMW355
    ia_leaf: 0
  - ia: HMW355
    ia_leaf: 1
  - ia: HMW355
    ia_leaf: 2
  - ia: HMW355
    ia_leaf: 3
  - ia: HMW355
    ia_leaf: 4
  - ia: HMW355
    ia_leaf: 5
  - ia: HMW355
    ia_leaf: 6
license: pd
pd_year: 
date: 1945-04-04
date_precision: day
storage_location: 
storage_location_key: 
wikidata: 
people:
  - william-murray-wilson
  - helen-margaret-hall
tags:
  - Darwin
description: 
todo: Transcribe 5 handwritten pages.
---

## Transcription

406376 F/O W.M. Wilson\
Group 679 RAAF Darwin\
Wednesday 4th April 45,

My Darlingheart,

It's now 4.15, I have just finished reading
such a wonderful letter — yours of Thursday Thank
you my sweetheart. You say that receiving a letter
puts you into the right mood for writing & yours has
done just that. I want to talk to you. Most of all I
want to tell you that I love you & that I'm missing
you so very much 'loved, that I think you are the
most wonderful & most precious sweetheart anyone
ever had. Oh darling you are so dear, precious to
me & — well, I just love you & love you with every
little bit of me.

You were a darling to make a special trip back to
town on Thursday to get my book. Now I am set & can
do a bit of study. I probably wont get too serious over
it, but it will be an occupation for my spare time & will be

{{{page-break}}}

2

of very real benefit to me. I often feel so inadequate when
I put words to {?|gather}. I have my own ideas as to how they
should go but I have very little idea why. I'm very glad
I've taken it up.

This of course is a little back to front to be replying
now to Thursday's letter when I've already replied to Fridays.
This one gives me a much better idea of your own outlook as
regards the car as it was mostly written before it broke
down. You poor old kid, Jean certainly did take the matter
out of your hands by arranging about the cottage & then
practically telling you she was keeping the car. That's what
it amounted to. Your quite right about being {?|whistled}
up when you can serve a purpose & it is poor sweetheart. I
had my share of being general carrier & taxi to the family
& now they're at you. Oh well, if common decency doesn't
make them chop it out now we'll just have to tell them to
hold off. I feel most disgusted that Jean should have
done that — one could hardly call it fair even if they'd returned
Austin in good order.

Don't you worry about it {?|for and leave}, 'loved, I have no

{{{page-break}}}

3

doubt that a bit of work will put it right. I supposed Melrose
is already on the job & will fix it for you. The suggestion
is too late this time of course but I wonder if you'd think
of asking Anderton Hall to do any jobs. It's just an idea,
& if you're not keen on it forget it, but I think he knows
Austins pretty well.

I was pretty right when I said the book would cost as
much to post as to buy, but its well spent.

I'm so glad Donald got the job — congratulate him
for me will you. It's nice to see some people get what they
want & he together ever if we can't for a while. Our turn will
come sweetheart & oh it will be so good.

Thanks for your comment on my handwriting,
perhaps you're biased but I liked it just the same. As
long as it tells you the most delicious things, that's all I want
from it. I jsut try to tel l you what is in my heart, 'loved
I like to think that you know what goes on there. It's yours
you know.

Don Beaton & his wife will be thrilled. They're right
now, he's done two tours, but then he hasn't had  over found
