---
template: item
itemtype: ephemera
parent_item: 
title: 1941-12-21 Alan C.N. Butcher to Aubrey Hall
author: alan-butcher
images:
  - ia: HMW356
    ia_leaf: 0
  - ia: HMW356
    ia_leaf: 1
  - ia: HMW356
    ia_leaf: 2
license: pd
pd_year:
date: 1941-12-21
date_precision: day
storage_location: 
storage_location_key: 
wikidata: 
people:
  - harold-aubrey-hall
  - alan-butcher
tags:
  - outram-street
description: 
todo: 
---

## Transcription

Air Mail Letter Card

If anything is enclosed this card will be sent by ordinary mail

Mr. H.A. Hall\
c/o 8 Outram Street\
West Perth\
West Australia.

*Greetings from the
AIF Middle East
Xmas New Year
1941-42*

When foldeed the letter card must conform in size and shape with the blue border,
within which the address only may be written

{{{page-break}}}

WX. 10979\
Butcher A.C.N.\
19th AITB "C" Coy\
M.E.F.\
AIF ABROAD\
Palestine 21 Dec

My Dear Friend,

It is quite a
long time since I heard
from you, many months ago
I wrote you at Roebourne &
received no answer &
later met  Les {?|Selinger} who
gave me your new address
which I mislaid somehow
so am sending this care of
the old home. Ray is in
England & I'm here in
Palestine somewhere came

{{{page-break}}}

over on one of the big
boats from Fremantle about
a month ago, the {?|farming}
& routine is very like we
had at home only we live
in tents instead of huts.
The country is not unlike
the Kimberley, the soil is
amazing, they sow three
crops per year, using the
time aged single furrow
wood plow & camel, daylight
till dark every day except
Sunday. I would like a
few thousand acres of it
after this job is finished.
The weather is just like
the Gascoyne winter, that
biting cold wind that goes

{{{page-break}}}

right thro' you like a knife.
In camp here no one
would know a war was
in existance, the same
carefree Aussie style, good
enough sort of thing, applies
everywhere. Lately an interest
has been created by the Jap
meandering around Malaya
& getting close to Rome! Good
thing the Yank had shifted
his body & decided to hop
into it & give us a hand.
The food is fair & supplies
for canteen are reasonable.
Pictures every night & leave
once a week in rotation.
Quite enjoying myself.
Best wishes for the New Year
& wife & lets hear from you.

{?} Butcher.
