---
template: item
itemtype: letter
parent_item: 
title: 1945-03-31 Murray to Margaret
author: 
images:
  - ia: HMW374
    ia_leaf: 0
  - ia: HMW374
    ia_leaf: 1
license: pd
pd_year: 2024
date: 1945-03-31
date_precision: day
storage_location: 
storage_location_key: 
wikidata: 
people:
  - william-murray-wilson
  - helen-margaret-hall
tags:
  - Darwin
description: Letter (one page) from Murray Wilson in Darwin to his wife Margaret.
todo: 
---

## Transcription

406376 F/O W.M. Wilson \
Group 679 RAAF Darwin \
Saturday 31st March 45

My Darling Beloved

Two letters to you in one day — I think I must
be in love — gosh I am sweetheart, with the very dearest
& loveliest girl that ever was and strangely enough
she's my wife. I really haven't much to tell you 'loved
but I just thought I'd like to say to you once more — I
love you.

I finished off this mornings letter in something
of a hurry from then till tea time I worked, & worked hard
too — on two stubborn engines that would not go. We
had all sorts of fun & finished up at 5 O'clock with everything
all set so we'll be able to push off home in the morning
I'll be very thankful to get there too!

The biggest hardship I find here is no sheets & no
pyjamas. Prickly blankets with a pair of underpants isn't
very comfy & I do like to be comfy at night even if I'm
not perspiring all day. I suppose it's quite in order though
cos I'm not hot and perspiring all day now — it's been beautifully
cool & very wet — quite a nice change but not very
good for flying. Wilson of course doesn't fly in weather
like that.

As I said sweetheart this is just to tell you I love
you & to bid you good night — I don't think you're used
to one page letters from me so I'll give you one for a change.
I do love you so awfully much my precious, you're
my very darling & very own dear one. You are now &
you always will be. Oh 'loved if I could only hold
you to me & hug you tightly to me & tell you that I love
you, I'd think I was in heaven. It would be heaven to
me & perhaps you {?|wouldn't} mind if I say it might be for you
too — {?} you. Huggles to Judy {?} & I do hope she's
well again To my very loved wife again just every bit of
my love. Darling heart I do adore you so. Your own Murray.
