---
template: item
itemtype: ephemera
parent_item: 
title: 1968-07-10 Louise Hall to Margaret Wilson
author: Louise Hall
images:
  - ia: HMW377
    ia_leaf: 1
  - ia: HMW377
    ia_leaf: 2
  - ia: HMW377
    ia_leaf: 3
  - ia: HMW377
    ia_leaf: 4
  - ia: HMW377
    ia_leaf: 5
  - ia: HMW377
    ia_leaf: 6
  - ia: HMW377
    ia_leaf: 7
  - ia: HMW377
    ia_leaf: 0
license: copyright
pd_year:
date: 1968-07-10
date_precision: day
storage_location: 
storage_location_key: 
wikidata: 
people:
  - Louise Hall
  - helen-margaret-hall
  - frederick-teesdale
tags:
  - letters
  - Roebourne
  - Leederville
  - 
description: Four page typed letter from Louise Hall to Margaret Wilson, regarding Mrs Teesdale and other members of the Hall family.
todo: 
---

## Transcription

16 Kitchener Road,\
ARTARMON. N.S.W. 2064.\
10th. July, 1968;

My dear Margaret,

Thank you very much for your letter. I was glad to
hear that the photo had reached you safely and that it had been given its
place in the family album.

It was good to hear of the continued success of your two
boys. What a wonderful mother-and-father you have been to them. Next
time a psychologist makes a public statement to the effect that it is
impossible to bring up children without both parents, I shall write and
contradict him, giving you as a shining example to the contrary. I hope
that the boys will continue to succeed and to bring you happiness — not
only the boys themselves but their children and their children's children.

And how nice for you to be able to look forward to having
your Judy and her three sons with you again at Christmas. It is very
good, isn't it, to get to know one's grandchildren in their early days.
It is then the links are formed that hold them to us later on. I wish
you — right now — a Very Happy Christmas, even though it may seem a trifle
early.

You seem to have achieved a great deal in the family research.
And I regard it as quite a triumph for you to have been able to interest
the younger generation. That is a tricky business, and only to be
accomplished by tactics of great diplomacy and cautious manoeuvring.

I remember meeting Reg Hester and his wife, Rosa, at Mrs.
Teesdale's way back in 1914. They seemed a nice couple, As you say, if
Rosa is now over 90 she has a ient to be difficult if she wishes, (I am
beginning to claim some privileges of the sort myself.) It is rather
strenge that there should be only one grandchild in that direction.

As regards Mrs. Teesdale, it is quite a fact that I was on

{{{page-break}}}

– 2 –

fairly intimate terms with her for some years. But I do not think she
ever spoke to me about her early days. She was actually one of those
whom the novelists describe as "a woman of few words". She literally
spoke very little — quite a contrast to the "earbashers" that surround
us to-day. I would say that she was a "lady" in every sense, particularly
the old-fashioned sense, of the word, quiet and reserved and always very
dignified. She was of medium height, not fat, but sturdily built, and
always dressed well, indeed, handsomely, when the occasion required it.
The years when I frequented her house were from 1914 to 1919. At the
end of 1919 my mother and my sister and myself left Perth and settled in
Sydney and in 1920 — I think in April or May — Mrs, Teesdale came over
and paid us a visit of about six weeks. She proved to be quite an agreeable
house guest, and we visited quite a lot of Sydney's beauty spots together.

She was a very efficient housewife, and I think one of the
reasons that she never talked much was that she was always busy. She
never had — to my knowledge — any help in the house, not even a laundress,
but her house was always immaculate, floors and furniture gleaming with
polish. She always rose early, took a cold shower, — no hot water
service in those days — and dressed herself completely before even making
a cup of tea. But although quiet and reserved she could show an iron
determination about anything that concerned her deeply, and she could not
be deflected from any course of action once she had made up her mind that
it was necessary. She destroyed opposition by ignoring it. "Take no
notice", was one of her slogans. She was religious, but not ostentatiously,
and attended church regularly, even week-day services, regardless of the
fact that the church was quite a long trek away, and she not a particularly
good walker. I would regard her as a very good woman. I never heard her
say anything vulgar or tell a piece of scandal, though, doubtless, having
lived so long in the North, she knew plenty.

{{{page-break}}}

I think it is perhaps understandable that Edith did not know much
of Mrs. Teesdale's early days. I was told that when Mr. Teesdale married
their mother he sent all the children away to be educated. Edith could
only have been very young at the time, and I do not think that she ever again
lived with her mother. She seems to have stayed in Adelaide with Mrs.
Main till her education was finished, and then began teaching in Perth.
I know that she paid one visit to Broome in some school holidays, but I did
not hear of any other time when she and her mother were together. Edith
was married at 19, [Edith actually 21 when wed. HMW.]
and by the time Mr. and Mrs. Teesdale left Broome and
established themselves in West Leederville, Edith had several children, at
least three, and probably all under the age of 6, so.she would be pretty
well occupied with her own affairs. Moreover, I think, though I never heard
anything {u|said} about this, that Mrs. Teesdale did not like Edith's husband,
and as Edith was always intensely loyal to her Jim, and also, as Mr. Teesdale
did not like small children, there could not have been much chance of cordial and
friendly contacts between the two Households. This may account for the
fact that — as you say — Jean and Rae did not know much about their
grandmother. They probably hardly ever set eyes on her. I remember, too,
in all the times — scores of them — that I was at Mrs. Teesdale's house,
I never once encountered Edith there. I do not say that she never went
there, but it seems that her visits must have been very infrequent as they
never coincided with any of mine.

I think it must have been rather sad for Mrs. Teesdale that she
saw so little of her children. It would seem that never again, after the
time in Roebourne when they were all so young, was the family all together.
They never seemed to have had any of those reunions that most families have
when everybody gets together — as in your family and mine — and reminiscences
are exchanged, and the mother tells about "When I was young" and "Twenty-five
years ago.......". They missed a lot, didn't they?

*Over*

{{{page-break}}}

– 4 –

I shall have tē finish up on thé back of this, as it is the last
sheet on the pad. I don't suppose that all this chit-chat is of any
value in your genealogy, but it may give some inkling as to why some of
the Halls were different from some of the other Halls. Our different
environments play ducks and drakes with our different characteristics,
don't they.

My best wishes to Joan and Maurice. I have been doing a lot
of typing lately, for a deceased estate; all full of whereases and
hereinbeforementioned and all that. Tell Joan she has my sympathy.

Your apologies for the late acknowledgment of the photo were
not really necessary. I have sinned so often in that respect myself that
I am mot in a position to launch any projectiles. My own glass house is
of the frailest.

I did not see the article in the "Women's Weekly" that you
mention, and if it was as objectionable as you say I am just as pleased.
I am sorry that your friend was affected so adversely by it. It must
have all happened — whatever it was — a very long time ago — and, in
any case, so much is happening how that these old tales are soon forgotten,
and I hope your friend will soon have recovered. I remember meeting
a Mrs. Hancock in Roebourne — a very nice young woman with a little
girl and a very young baby boy. I think it vas a Mrs. George Hancock.
Could it be the same?

Wishing you success in all your activities,

and with love,

Louise Hall.
