---
template: item
itemtype: letter
parent_item: 
title: 1946-02-04 To Aubrey Hall in Goomalling
author: 
images:
  - ia: HMW382
    ia_leaf: 0
  - ia: HMW382
    ia_leaf: 1
  - ia: HMW382
    ia_leaf: 2
  - ia: HMW382
    ia_leaf: 3
  - ia: HMW382
    ia_leaf: 4
license: copyright
pd_year:
date: 1946-02-04
date_precision: day
storage_location: 
storage_location_key: 
wikidata: 
people:
  - harold-aubrey-hall
tags:
  - 
description: 
todo: 
---

## Transcription

GOOMALLING\
1146A11FEB46\
WA

MR. H. AUBREY HALL.\
"WOOPENATTY."\
ARRINO. M.R.

{{{page-break}}}

GOOMALLING.\
4/2/46.

My Dear Aubrey,

Sister went home a week or so ago; was able to get a car ride
from here with Dr Carlin, and apparently had a splendid trip. I ran sown
for a couple of days last week, returning on Friday. When down there we
talked of you several times, and Sister said:- "I hope you did not forget
"to pay Aubrey for the trip." I, of course said I had not done so, and she
was so upset that I was quite unable to understand at first, but when she
said that she has promised you that this would be done, and had mentioned the
matter to me I began to understand. Now the fault is entirely mine, I am sur
sure she must have mentioned the matter to me, as her word is alwayd
correct, but it quite escaped my memory. I am deeply sorry forthis, and
and now make amends therefor by enclosing a couple of P.N. I am sure you
will forgive me. I have written to tell Sister that I am doing the right
thing. I do not want to be prying into your business Aub:, but if ever you
are pished for a few Notes do not hesitate to let me know, I am glad to be
able to report that the visit to Goomalling did the Sister quite a lot of goo
good. Indeed she is a far better woman in health now than she has ever been
since I have known her. I may just be able to get the outgoing mail if I
hurry, so will close, I will sand you some reading matter soon. Kindest
regards

Yours sincerely

{?}
