---
template: item
itemtype: ephemera
parent_item: 
title: William Shakespeare Hall to Valentine Hester, 4 May 1893
author: william-shakespeare-hall
images:
  - ia: w-s-hall-1893-05-04
    ia_leaf: 0
  - ia: w-s-hall-1893-05-04
    ia_leaf: 1
  - ia: w-s-hall-1893-05-04
    ia_leaf: 2
  - ia: w-s-hall-1893-05-04
    ia_leaf: 3
  - ia: w-s-hall-1893-05-04
    ia_leaf: 4
  - ia: w-s-hall-1893-05-04
    ia_leaf: 5
license: pd
pd_year: 1966
date: 1893-05-04
date_precision: day
storage_location: 
storage_location_key: 
wikidata: 
people:
  - william-shakespeare-hall
  - val-hester
tags:
  - letters
description: 
---

keywords                  = IBT

File: WSH_1893_05_04.doc [[:File:W_S_Hall_1893_05_04.pdf]]

2009 July 22: typed by IB, and checked against MS

## Transcription

Cossack

4th May 1893

Dear Val

I cannot give you much information with regard to your questions.

The following is about all I know, — A person named I H Little said he had been living near a Mr Thomas Hester at No 59 Nott St Sandridge & that he Hester had become possessed of property or money that should have come to you, as near as I can recollect he said from an uncle deceased.

Your grandfather had a brother Robert, whether he went to Victoria I do not know.

I do not know what county your grandfather came from originally, but he was much in London & twelve years in Calais on half pay, he told me there was some property (Landed) held by Sir Watkin Wynd that belonged to him & gave Mr Dawson a lawyer a power to act & recover for him, but I think he never heard any more about it.

I am

Your affect uncle

W S Hall

Q: Did your great uncle Robt Hester leave a will in favour of your father & Thos Hester claim as next of kin.

We are glad to hear you are getting on well with your contract, I am very sorry Ernest did not go with you as he has had no work since you left us & has none now, nor any prospect of any.

Galbraith’s vessel has returned. The SS ''Colac'' is here with stud rams & few horses for D McRae.

Small-pox still spreading in Perth, but only slowly, about 37 cases have occurred.

Many thanks for your kind invitation, perhaps we might come later on.

The Commercial & National Banks have stopped payment, it is supposed they will go on again soon.

We are all very well at present & I pray we may keep clear of the smallpox.

With love from all & your affect uncle

W S Hall
