---
template: item
itemtype: letter
parent_item: 
title: Copy of letter no 22 from WM Wilson to HMW
author: william-murray-wilson
images:
  - ia: copies-of-five-letters-from-wm-wilson
    ia_leaf: 3
license: pd
pd_year:
date: 1942-03-26
date_precision: day
storage_location: 
storage_location_key: 
wikidata: 
people:
  - william-murray-wilson
  - helen-margaret-hall
tags:
  - ww2
  - Scotland
description: |
  Letter from Murray Wilson in Edinburgh to his wife Margaret.
  He was on his way north to Stornoway.
---

## Transcription

{u|Copy of letter No.22 from Sgt. Pilot Murray Wilson to H.M.W.}

26th.March 1942.

I'm in Edinburgh now dear and have just been to see the Sinclairs. We have a
night here on the way through so of course I rang them as soon as we arrived
here, the train got in at about 7.15 and we booked in at the Royal Hotel in
Princes Street and then had a bath, shave etc. then tea and then out to see
them.

They are a great family and I have promised to stay with them when I get some
more leave. Elizabeth brought out a whole lot of snaps that Constance has
sent her at various times and she told me the news of her latest letters. I
just had a couple of hours with them as I didn't get out till after nine, but
I was jolly glad to be able to meet them and I think they were pleased to see me.
Elizabeth's sister - forget her name - (Anna who is very lovely and married to
an Enlgishman in the Air Force, H.M.W.) wasn't home, but the others were, I
suppose I was a bit lucky that they weren't all out as of course I couldn't
tell them that I was coming before I did.

Yesterday we went from London to Norwich and stayed the night there in some
damned broken down sort of a boarding house that calls itself an hotel. It is
run by the usual boarding house type of woman who informed us that we couldn't
have a bath as they only allowed their guests one bath a week and anyway casuals
couldn't have one at all. It was that sort of a dump. However it was
only for a night so we survived it but it was a bit of a comedown from the
Strand Palace that we had just come from.

We came from Norwich to Edinburgh today and had quite a good trip. This Hotel
is quite a nice place and I am looking forward to a decent snooze when I've
finished this. I should have started by telling you where we are going instead
of saying it bit by bit. We're off to Stornaway and that is in the Isle of
Lewis about the most godforsaken of all the godforsaken joints
that ever were. I forget whether I said before that we were going to Horsham
St. Faith - near Norwich - or Bircham Newton. Anyhow we were told to go to
them both in turn and then finished up with Stornaway so I won't see Rae unless
we get called back as we may do but it is not very likely.

We went to Norwich to fix up our luggage which we had previously sent there.
Tomorrow we continue the journey and go to Inverness and beyond that we have
not worked out what happens. I would never have thought such a long drawn
out journey was possible here, but the big advantage is that we are getting a
decent sleep each night and then travelling in the day time, we worked it out
that way to suit ourselves - I believe we were due there two days ago but it
will be a couple of days hence before we arrive.

We had a great week in London - didn't go to any more theatres after the two
I told you of but saw a couple of picture shows. One day we all got together
in Australia House and decided to go out to see the Science Museum - it is
supposed to be very interesting - but when we got there after a lot of bother
finding it, we discovered it had been closed since the beginning of the war,
or so we were told. Anyway it was certainly shut then, but still we saw a bit
of London we hadn't seen before.

On Sunday night I went out to see Madge and Keith Cummings and took them some
sugar and some tea. There was another chap there too - Ron Westen a West.
Aust. chap who was in England when the war broke out so he joined the R.A.F.
It was nice to see them again.

In my rush of telling you what I'm doing I didn't even tell you that I had
another letter from you. It was waiting for me at Horsham - No.28 and was
such a lovely surprise for me. I didn't expect any mail there, but got your
letter just as we had finished lunch.

This is just a short letter to tell you how things are going so goodnight.

Received 6th. June, 1942.

Letter No 21 not get rcd.
