---
template: item
itemtype: letter
parent_item: 
title: Copy of letter No 19 from WM Wilson to HMW
author: william-murray-wilson
images:
  - ia: copies-of-five-letters-from-wm-wilson
    ia_leaf: 4
  - ia: copies-of-five-letters-from-wm-wilson
    ia_leaf: 5
license: pd
pd_year:
date: 1942-01-18
date_precision: day
storage_location: 
storage_location_key: 
wikidata:
people:
  - william-murray-wilson
  - helen-margaret-hall
tags:
  - ww2
  - Silloth
  - England
description: |
  Letter from Murray Wilson, written between 18 and 20 January 1942
  to his wife Margaret in Australia.
---

## Transcription

{u|COpy of letter No.19 from Sgt. Pilot W.M.Wilson to H.M.W.}

Silloth,\
18th. January, 1942.

Your ordinary air mail letters are catching up now - yesterday I got No.13 so
that now I have got all up to 20 except 16 and 18. Now that the Clipper has
stopped they are filling in the gap which would otherwise be there.

{u|Monday 19th.} I am sorry that this letter is such a long time after the last
one, but even in this first half page I have stopped twice and now this is the
third attempt. I am definitely going to make some progress this time.

It is now 10 a.m. and I am still in bed - it is my day off today - and for the
moment at any rate I've got the hut on my own. I am writing lying down with my
head on the pillow and pad beside, it is more comfy than I thought it would me,
but if my writing is more unreadable than usual you'll know why. I've got my
red cardigan on to keep my arm warm.

Yesterday afternoon I got another letter from you - it was No.18. I do feel
pretty badly about my letters to you - there just aren't enough of them. If
there was a nice quiet spot where I could go when I wanted to write I would
get so many more written but there isn't. We have just the mess and the hut
and they are both very rowdy. I want to write to you but it is difficult to
get around to it.

This afternoon I am going into Carlisle and I have some snaps to collect.
There are some of London amongst them, including some taken of the stage of the
Prince of Wales Theatre. I forget whether I mentioned to you that I went to
a show there with Tommy and took some snaps. The only other time I tried was
on our previous - rather first - visit to London, when I took some snaps at
the Palladium, but it was on slow film and now much good. This time I had
fast - Super XX - film in the camera and I am rather hopeful. I'll send you
what good ones there are.

I haven't get got around to telling you that yesterday I got eight letters and
your cable. It was a great surprise to find such a pile there and thanks so
much for your cable. It told me - as well as that you had had a letter of
mine and you had sent me some - that you are at Carnarvon. I do hope that you
are enjoying it and had a good trip up. I'm afraid that the trip is rather
tough and very tiring but I hope it was as good as possible. Nodoubt you have
Judith with you and are going to stay for some time. It will be decent for you
to be with them all for a while and nice for the nips too.

{u|Tuesday 20th.} Yesterday was quite a big day. I got up in time for a bath etc.
before dinner and at the mess I found four of the lads from Geraldton. I don't
think I have mentioned these chaps to you before. Ted McKinnon and Alan Moyle
and Col. Veal (from Northampton) and Dudley Dyson. THey had come the previous
night by plane and had the day here - in fact they are still here. It was
great having the day off with them.

We went into Carlisle at 2 p.m. and went from there to Gretna by bus - it is
only a few miles from Carlisle - just over the border. When we left Carlisle
it was snowing at bit and when we reached Gretna there was quite a bit of snow
on the grown and it was coming down more heavily although it was really sleet
and so rather wet.

However, when we got out of the bus it was very cold - a strong wind was blowing
which made it colder - and the first thing we did was to find an eating
house. Gretna is only a little village but we found a decent tearooms and had
some tucker and then out into the snow and wind again.

There was a lot of snow on the ground by this time and we had a lot of fun with
a running snow fight along the street. We were off to see the famous Smithy's
Shop and his anvil. Its about a quarter of an hours walk from where we were
and by the time we got there we were quite warm, but the Smithy's shop was shut
we had to be content with a look through the window. We took some snaps
and bought some postcards, and then back to the bus.

The snow was holding up traffic so the bus was late and we walked along and
I found a pub on the track and had a few grogs before it came along. The rest
of the boys were staying in Carlisle for the night, but I had to get back.
I could have got back here in the early morning but it is 22 miles and would
have been a lot of trouble, so after having some tea I caught the train home.
It was a darned good day and we all enjoyed it immensely. It was our first
experience of snow and we had a lot of fun in it. Also it was decent for me
to meet up with them again and get all the news of the boys.

When I got back here it had been snowing very heavily and was still doing so
and there was six or eight inches on the ground. The Canadians even said it
was "real snow". Not as much of it as they get of course but it was a heavy
fall for England, especially near the coast.

Next morning when we could see it really looked beautiful and I have taken a
couple more snaps. It is still with us and snowing again today and it will
probably be around for some time yet.

*P.T.O.*

{{{page-break}}}

It is very cold but we get well rugged up. At the moment I have three pairs
of socks on and rubber knee boots also two pullovers. It is really very nice
to see the snow and I am glad we are having some and there is no need to be
cold if you look after yourself - and you may be quite sure that I do.
While in Carlisle I got my last lot of snaps and there are a few good ones
among them too. I am rather pleased with the theatre ones and also one I
took in a fog in Regents Park, London. I'll send them.

I only got to the end of page 7 yesterday and have continued én from there
today. I carry my pad around and write when I get the chance.

Tonight another lad and I are going visiting. One of the English lads here
has his wife in Silloth and he has asked us to spend the evening with them.
He's a good sort and I am looking forward to it.

Received 9th. April 1942.

Postcard of Gretna Green dated 23/1/42 - received 9/4/42.

Have just received your wonderful parcel, also your two cables from Carnarvon.
Thank you for all the things you have sent me. It was. just a marvellous
parcel. Mother's came at the same time also a cable saying "parcel received"
At that rate you won't have got yours yet but I hope its not very long reaching
you now.

I'll get in touch with Elizabeth Sinclair straight away. Nodoubt you will
write and tell me later who she is but for the time it is enough to know that
she is receiving my letters. It is a great idea as the Air Force is much too
lax about mail and it is delayed a terribly long time here.

M.W.
